# Instructions for Creating a Debian Package

This README provides a step-by-step guide for creating a Debian package (.deb) for the DataExtraction 2.0 project.

## Prerequisites:

* dpkg-deb: Used to build the Debian package.
* nano (or another text editor): For editing the package configuration files.


## Steps to Create the Debian Package

### 1.  Run the following command inside the scripts folder:
    ` pyinstaller --onefile --windowed --add-data "recursos:recursos" dataextraction.py`

    - Executing this command will create a *dataextraction.spec*  file and two folders: *build* y *`dist`*.


### 2.  Project Structure:
Create a folder with the name and version of the application:

    `mkdir dataextraction-2.0`

Then:

    `cd mkdir dataextraction-2.0`

    `mkdir DEBIAN`

    `mkdir -p usr/local/bin`

Ensure that your project has the following directory structure:

    dataextraction-2.0/
    ├── DEBIAN/
    └── usr/
        └── local/
            └── bin/

### 3.  Using the created executable:
We look for the executable that was created inside the dist folder in step 1 and place it inside the folder "`bin`":

`cd usr/local/bin`

### 4.  Package Configuration
Within the DEBIAN directory, edit the following files as needed:

`cd DEBIAN`

* control: Define package details such as name, version, description, and dependencies.

* copyright: Specify software copyright and license.

* changelog: Record package changes and versions.

For example: 

`nano control`
    
        Package: DataExtraction
        Version: 2.0
        Architecture: all
        Maintainer: Name name@innovex.cl>
        Description: Automatically download data


### 5.  File Permissions:
* Verify that files and directories have correct permissions.

`sudo chown -R root:root /home/directory/of/dataextraction-2.0`

### 6. Building the Package
* To create the Debian package:

`sudo dpkg-deb --build /home/directory/of/dataextraction-2.0`

### 7. Package Installation:
* Check the directory where your data folder is located dataextraction-2.0. For example:

        deb
        └── dataextraction-2.0/
        │    ├── DEBIAN/
        │     ├── usr/
        │       └── local/
        │           └── bin/
        └── dataextraction-2.0.deb

* After building the package, you can install it using

    `sudo apt-get install /path/to/package.deb`


### 8. Testing

Perform tests to ensure the package installs correctly and functions as expected.

`dataextraction`
 
 * Press Ok button
 * Press Check Status button or Data Extraction button
 * Finally, press Sleep button (do not skip this step).

_Note: If you want to test the package. The files generated by the interface will be saved in the directory where you named the package_